---
title: Death to Peter Pan 
---

Even when I was young, I hated the Peter Pan story. To me, it was the tragedy of a boy who has chosen not to grow up, made all the more tragic by the idea that his perpetual childhood makes him beloved. I don't know why Week 6 made me think of that, but I often write for the sake of finding out why I was thinking about something, and this might be one of those times. So here goes.

The Monday morning discussion of diversity and inclusion generated a lot of thoughtful conversation afterward, and I was again impressed with how smart my classmates are. I am not as confident about the value of the "blind" resume process as many of the women in class are, although I understand the temptation. To me it puts the responsibility for fairness in the wrong place, and on the person (the job candidate) with the least power. It says, we don't think we can base our hiring strictly on the qualifications, so here, wear this employment burqa so we can't see you. It requires no evolution by the hiring team, or the development team, so the same frathouse mentality that is killing the retention rate for female coders is still in place when the female candidate is finally revealed, and when she starts work. Except that the frathouse will have a patina of egalitarianism, in the form of the blind hiring process. Net of all nets, we will succeed in churning through a larger group of female coders, perhaps even running them out of the profession more quickly because the blind hiring process raised expectations that the workplace reality has no intention of meeting. 

To me, the answer is not to hide the women but to expose the men, or at least the male behavior. Not because it is the right thing to do: Employers who make hiring decisions based on The Beer Test are not overly concerned with the right thing to do. Do it because it is a business imperative. If our company is struggling to fill programming positions, maybe we have to stop looking at whether candidates are a "good fit" for us, and see how we can be made a good fit for a larger group of the candidates. It is okay and even desirable in my book that the coders participate in deciding the direction this workplace evolution takes, but it must happen. We'll call it outcome-based evolution.

And that was just Monday. The majority of the week was devoted to the pair programming projects. We had nine project teams, all of whom presented on Friday. I was impressed with every project, and I believe each team generated their own project idea.

As much as I enjoyed pair programming, and liked the product we were working on, the pair programming experience reaffirmed a suspicion I have had. That suspicion is that I am not that great of a coder. My partner worked more quickly, with more assurance, and with a better memory for coding syntax. While I cannot speak for the other groups and their experiences, it would not surprise me to learn that the same women who were advocating blind hiring processes were the stronger coders in their pair projects.  

Pair programming, and the project we chose, offered a host of challenges. Developing a database that would allow a customer at SpielBound to search for a game to play sounds straightforward enough. But we found some obstacles. How to make a search engine. How to make a search engine that works even if the customer only searches on one search category. How to obtain the titles of 1776 games and worthwhile information about them. How to find out what a specific customer (SpielBound) wants in such a program. And what to focus on to meet a Friday deadline. 

I am happy with our approach. I met with Cody from SpielBouond so that he would know what we are doing and to get some ideas from him about what a useful app would do. For the programming, we focused first on the games database and CRUD operations for it. We did create two functions (a manual way to add a new game, and a manual way to update a game) that may already be obsolete, because Sumeet taught us a little about how APIs work. Our published information about the board games comes from our API with Board Game Geek.com.  
We started on the User features, but only started. This is an area in which SpielBound staff can be especially helpful, by giving us some ideas about how they would like to be able to communicate with their registered users. 

Then it was presentation time. Neither my teammate nor I are born presenters. I generally fail to relax as a presenter, even in the warm environment of Code School. We decided my teammate would navigate through the program and I would talk. I hope I never see video of this. I am pretty sure I rushed, and in retrospect can see that I did not need to. We could describe all we had in 1-2 minutes of conversation-paced talk. I will have to work on that. I do much better at a conference table with a few peers, or even 1 on 1. 

Code School has helped me hone a specific skill set. I can generally determine what needs to be done to solve the problem the program has to solve. I can map steps toward that solution. And I can write out in English what the program does in such a way that a layperson can understand it. I have learned to pursue solving the coding problem in a more repeatable, organized way that seems to be leading us toward understanding Agile development. My weak spot is the actual coding. My strengths seem to fall in line with another job which, depending on the employer, might be labeled a business analyst or a project manager. I think business analyst is a career I would like to pursue with my Code School experience in hand. 

I am also looking forward to the upcoming pivot to front-end web development with javascript, html and cascading style sheets. I have no more experience with those than I had with ruby, but my marketing experience aligns more closely with the front-end of the web. As manager of the marketing communications functions at my former employer, the most common request was some variation of "make this sound good." A close second was "make this look good." Front-end web development helps to answer that call.

More than one communications department I interviewed with over the past 18 months of job searching had a person in communications who did at least some html work. It may have been maintenance of current pages, rather than designing from scratch, but that person was not sitting with the coders. An educated guess, I would say that sometime soon most marketing communications content writers and/or graphic artists will be expected to learn front-end web development. I don't know if that simply means higher knowledge demands will be placed on those workers, or a new generation of javascript/html/css will significantly simplify development, or a combination. But the arc of business history bends toward raising the knowledge bar for knowledge workers. 

I am also looking forward to learning more about and understanding the scrum master and product owner roles in Agile processes. I think the fact that Agile processes accept the probability that customer requirements are going to change adds a healthy dose of reality to development. I see the scrum master and the product owner as internal communications functions. I can do that.

And now, I figured out why I was thinking of the evils of Peter Pan. In the Freudian nightmare that is Neverland, Peter Pan has an impressive trail of asymetrical relationships with women. More like female archetypes: Tinkerbell the headstrong child, Tiger Lily the independent woman, and Wendy the substitute mother. And they all love the perpetual child, Peter Pan, and help him in his efforts to outwit Captain Hook. As far as I can tell, they are not rewarded for this behavior. (To complete the whole Freud thing, in some productions of Peter Pan, the actor who plays Captain Hook also plays Wendy's bumbling father.)  

The more modern Peter Pan, living on Red Bull and Cheetos, coding with the Lost Boys and outsmarting the grown-ups at every turn, has to grow up. That is the only way the talented women in my OCS class are going to get the jobs they have earned.  

--Patrick Clark