---
title: Beginning Week Three!
---

So I guess today marks the beginning of week three of classes at Omaha Code School. I say "I guess" because it doesn't quite feel like we're in the third week. The implication here isn't that it feels longer than that... but I'm definitely not saying it feels like less! It feels more like time has stopped. Yeah, that's a more accurate description. Time has stopped and the only way I can break free of this anomoly in the space-time continuum is by creating a time-freeze-breaking algorithm with Ruby, and maybe I'll need to add some HTML/CSS/Javascript to make it look pretty and user-friendly. 

Whenever I picture myself learning, I'm fairly certain I have this image of information just being zapped into my head from my teacher like a laser beam. Similarly, I've always thought of my head as being like a sponge, into which all kinds of information can be absorbed, assuming I'm willing to take the time to soak it all up. But it hasn't been quite like that here at Omaha Code School. Nope. Here, we learn by doing. Let me rephrase that. We learn by getting so frustrated that we can barely speak. We learn by receiving error after meaningless (or so we think) error. We learn by having halfway working code and then breaking it. In fact, we learn by doing just about everything BUT doing things the right way. Getting it right is just the payoff and the feeling we all seek so badly that we're willing to go through another day of the same headache-inducing process all over again.

If it sounds like I'm being negative, I assure you, I'm not trying to be. The point I'm trying to get across is that, while I did expect that the teaching style here would be hands-on, I didn't quite expect it would be *this* hands-on. Sumeet's approach is to give as minimal of a lecture as possible and then throw you in to a project (which, sometimes only have a small connection to what we just learned). It goes somethign like this: We'll learn some great stuff during the lecture, get a project assigned, wrack our brains all day trying to find a solution, come back the next day more confused than the day before, and THEN Sumeet clears things up (but then gives us more challenges!).

That's hard for me. You see, I'm the kind of person that loves to learn ALL about every aspect a particular subject before I give it a go and get my hands dirty. In fact, sometimes I just enjoy learning so much that I have no problem with skipping the practical side of things. This allows me to sit back comfortably at the end of the day and imagine that I've got a good grasp on things. Most of that stems from fear, if I had to guess. Imposter syndrom and all that.

My point is that the way we've been doing things is not the way I would learn, if left to my own devices. But that's one of the main reasons I decided to give Omaha Code School a chance: I really don't want to be left to my own devices! Otherwise, I'd never get anything done. 

All that to say, I really have been enjoying my time here, as challenging as it may be at times. I loved learning algorithms (and then for a while I hated it). Then I loved learning Obect Oriented Programming (but just when I thought it made sense, it didn't). Then, just today we started learning about databases. Databases? Yuck? Well, last Friday I thought so anyhow... but today I think it's pretty awesome. I never thought tables and data would be exciting. Now, I'm pretty sure it's going to be one of my favorite parts (but then again, I always say that).

