---
layout: page
title: OCS Log, Week 7 
---

Another week out and another week in at OCS. The more even pace of things has continued. That Sisysphean hill has seemed to drop in altitude and pushing the boulder up is less of an arduous task. I'm not sure if this is because the lessons are easier, conceptually, or if I'm just getting more comfortable with the general syntax of all of this. One thing's for sure: the pieces are really starting to fall into place and it's becoming apparent how all of what we've learned fit together to form a larger entity.

This week our focus has turned to the fabled JavaScript. For the non-coders among us, even this name should ring a bell. I've had a very, very limited understanding of the use of JS so I was pretty excited to get going on this block of the cirriculum. For the most part, it's been user friendly. Having grown somewhat comfortable with Ruby, transitioning the language syntax to JS has jived. We're working with the same type of information just referring to it in slightly different ways.

With a quick this-for-that, Ruby-to-Javascript introduction, we were off. The exercises were challenging yet manageable. I found the challenge moreso in procrastinating on my procrastination and getting through the bulk of the work. The one drawback of getting more comfortable with the concepts is that my old friend, procrastination, has again reared its ugly head. When things were hectic and uncomfortable, I could more easily plug in and work for endless hours in order to stay afloat. Now the beckoning call of playing MtG (nerd translation: Magic the Gathering) with friends or checking social media has grown loud in my ear. But, unlike my previous school years, my self control has been bolstered seemingly by the passage of time alone; I've certainly not been actively working on it.

So having securely chained that devious bastard and resetting over the weekend, I'm back at it full force. I'm even getting better about ignoring my internal clock, seemingly set to PST, and not going to bed at 2:00am. Now that I'm getting any idea for how all of these once disparate concepts will work in concert, the excitement is ratcheting up. Stay tuned, hopefully my inclinations are correct and we'll start churning out some truly impressive stuff in no time.