---
title: OCS Log, Finding Our Rhythm at Week 5
---

With over a month in the books, we're really settling into a rhythm here at OCS. My fellow students have carved out their various routines to optimize intake while minimizing existential turmoil. Exercises come and go with fewer breakdowns while a hiccup here and there is still to be expected.

To start out the week we learned to add some flair to our previous projects in the form of dropdowns and checkboxes. I had been fooling around with these features beforehand but it was still nice to get a direct explanation. The next feature we learned I had also tried my hand at in a comically insecure manner. For our web app, Binary Battle, I had restricted access to the admin page to add items to a category with a faux password check. I knew the means by which I achieved this ruse was incorrect so learning validation the correct way was a nice step forward as well.

Half way through the week we indifferently abandoned last week's projects. Next on the slate: To-Do Lists. With little more than a premade schema, we were left to define the project on our own, which approximately 99% of us did so incorrectly. Where we were meant to design a web app for a group of users to create to-do lists for group projects, it sounds like we all went for a more isolationist approach. No matter! A few tweaks here and there and we're back on track. This project has been a lot of fun for me. Feeling a bit more comfortable and confident in designing these bare-bones web apps, it really felt like I knew how to play around with the various moving parts to achieve the end goal.

Nearing the end of the week and things are still seeming to go pretty well, a little too well. Taking in new ideas and features is feeling a lot less like jamming a square peg into a circular hole. It's also a plus that the featuers we've uncovered this week have been answers to problems or shortcomings I had felt were in the projects we had done up to this point. Such was the case with Post-Redirect-Get, halting, and filters. Routing users how we knew we wanted without all of these extraneous View pages feels oh so nice.

You may be able to read a certain ease in the tone of this entry as opposed to those not even a month ago, and you wouldn't be wrong. But if this course has taught me anything, this can only mean that we've managed to take a breather with that boulder teatering on the apex of that all-too-familiar hill. Inevitibly we will find ourselves at the bottom again more than willing to take on the struggle.