---
title: Thoughts as We Enter Week Three
---

There's a story I recall hearing about the great Houdini.  He was once approached by a student who told him, "I know hundreds of card tricks, how many do you know?" Houdini replied, "Five, and I have dedicated my entire life to learning how to entertain an audience with them".  I can't help but think that this applies to this profession.

It's clear, even from a cursory glance, that there are dozens of ways to approach what we're doing here.  There is no shortage of tutorials, books, methods, tips, tricks, and so forth that we have available to us.  It's equally apparent that we can't possibly master it all.  Moreover, it's becoming obvious that we should follow Houdini's example.  Rather than trying to master it all, we should strive to be really good at what we can do.  That's not to say that we shouldn't strive to expand our understanding of things, but rather that there's real value in dwelling on these first steps and understanding them clearly.

Granted, understanding is slow in coming with some of this.  I'm not sure yet if that's due to the complexity of the material or because there are often a lot of moving parts to keep track of.  Either way, I've found that patience is key, both with the material and with myself.  Learning web development reminds me a lot of learning a foreign language.  Yes, you can look up things that slip your mind, but in order to be really proficient, you need to have a fairly large body of knowledge at your mental disposal, this takes time and a willingness to screw up, often.

Additionally, a lot of people, when learning a foreign language, make the mistake of learning *about* the langauge rather than the language itself.  They can tell you what tense a verb is, how it's conjugated, and so forth, but lack an ability to really use that knowledge to communicate, that is, in a useful manner.  It's something akin to knowing that a tomato is a fruit, but not having enough sense to realize that it doesn't belong in a fruit salad.

I'm still working out how best to collaborate with my classmates.  In part, I think this comes about because we all seem to approach the problems we're given to wrestle with differently.  While I'm happy to see this, it's great to see all the different ways we tear into the problems, it also means that the problems I'm dealing with in my code aren't necessarily or even likely to be the same problems that others are trying to sort out.  It also hammers home the notion that as difficult as it may be to debug and refactor my code, doing that for someone else is orders of magnitude more challenging.  

I feel tension in doing this too because I know how much I need this to work out for me.  As such, every setback feels more daunting than it probably is.  I understand this, so I try not to let my failures get me down.  A great many of the articles and podcasts I've encountered on doing what we're all undertaking here emphasize how important tenacity is in all this.  I'm just hoping I prove to be tenacious enough.  So far, I've been doing a pretty decent job of getting back up whenever I get floored by the nth bug my code has coughed up.  Let's hope that continues.  