---
title: Projects, partners, and an app
---

So, this week, we got our first taste of writing up an app with a wider audience.  Well, a hypothetically wider audience anyway.  It was also a chance to work on those ever important pair coding skills.  Apparently, this was also the first time OCS has had its students devise their own problems to solve with their apps.  All in all I think it was a fun experience and I was pretty happy with our end result.  As a class, I'd say we did pretty well for our first foray into actually developing something that was...*gasp*...useful.

Okay, so "useful" might be stretching it a bit with our app, but as with most things, that's a matter of perspective.  After a bit of back and forth at the beginning of the week, my partner and I settled on a spontaneous travel app of sorts.  If you're the sort of person who dreams of dropping everything to fly off somewhere exotic tomorrow on the spur of the moment, then our app's usefulness could probably be categorized as "hella".  If, however, the idea of pulling up stakes and rushing off to the antipodes of the earth on a moment's notice gives you hives and heart palpatations, then...yeah, not very useful.

Still, for my partner and I, the idea had its charms and we set out to make it a reality.  The first day was spent reducing the idea to its bare bones so that we'd have a chance of getting it done in a weeks time.  The second was largely spent with getting the basic CRUD functions sorted out for the various tables we deemed necessary to complete our task.  Since the one moving part of this whole thing, the API needed to get current travel fare data, was something neither of us had any experience with, we were doing our best to make sure that everything we knew how to do was well and truly done before we had to futz with the bit that was everything that we'd never done before.  So, by Wednesday, we'd gotten things to the point where the only way to make progress was to dig in to the API.  

A bit of googling taught us that there were several APIs out there that would give us the information we needed, but alas, the first one we'd alighted on had a subscription fee that was more than either of us wanted to pony up.  Still, Google being Google, we soon learned what we needed and were able to find an API provided by, you guessed it, Google.  From there, it was a matter of sorting out how to get access to the API and how best to format the information it provided so as to do what we set out to do.  Sorting out how best to extract the information we needed from the monster of a hash/array data that was kicked back to us by the API took up a good chunk of Thursday.  Happily though, we figured it out and were able to get it to actually work before leaving for the day.  I have to say, it was cool being able to take real data, in a format that till that day was foreign to us, and really _do_ something with it.

The rest of our time was spent making sure our comparison algorithm worked and that its results displayed properly.  Still, that seemed almost trivial when compared to the issues we'd been having with just getting the API up and running and spitting back the data we wanted.  In the end it worked though and whether digital or tangible, making something and having it _work_ is a really good feeling.  It was also a lot of fun seeing the class respond favorably to our idea.  Wonderful to have an idea function as expected, better still to have people like what it does.

While it wasn't always a smooth experience coding with someone else, I rather liked it.  Generally, where I fumbled she knew what to do and vice versa so our strengths filled in where the other lacked.  It also helped immensely with the occasional tedium to be found in doing something like sorting out CRUD.  Another added benefit, when it's not working, having someone say "yeah, I have no idea why it's not working either" can be very reassuring, at least you know you're not the only one who's baffled.

Even though this was "just a project for class", I'm still thinking of ways we could maybe make this thing better and seeing how it might be expanded upon as an idea.  I'm looking forward to revisiting it when I've got more experience and some JavaScript and CSS under my belt.  Hopefully, the next thing we get to work on will be as engaging.