---
title: OCS Log Week 6, Pair Projects
---

Going strong into week 6 and for those who, like me, enjoy the comfort of their introverted shell, things are about to get real. On the previous Friday we learned who our partners would be for the pair project. I found that I would be one half of the dynamic duo of Patrick and Chris. Now I just had to come up with possible ideas over the weekend. Usually, this wouldn't be a problem but for some reason my creative juices just weren't flowing. Lucky for the both of us, Patrick came to the table with a plethora of great ideas.

After weeding some out we decided on creating a search engine for the group-favorite Spielbound. Patrick came up with the idea after noticing that without our fellow classmate Shannon guiding us through the seemingly endless collections of games at Spielbound, that we would be lost. Armed with the idea, a rough understanding of how to tackle it, and a few days, we were off.

Having learned and worked in the near isolation of my own introversion, working as a pair had a bit of a learning curve itself. I was a bit nervous to attempt to test out my fledging skills with another looking over my shoulder, but things went smoother than anticipated. We decided that my computer would be HQ with each of us taking the helm as we saw fit. Really, the trickiest part was geting used to the workflow of creating and merging new feature branches. It was nearly without fail that we would forget one step or another. But thank Cthulu it's pretty difficult to meaningfully break anything.

So little by little, day by day we worked toward our goal. The basic layout for the site was pretty straightforward: User logs in, user defines some search parameters, user is presented with a result. Our first hurdle was getting a very simple version of our search engine functioning. With anything from zero, to a few, to all search parameters being filled in, it was a little trickier than we thought. But, as it seems to happen, I had a triumph in the TIAS department and tackled that issue.

Now we had a very, very bare-bones version of the site running. The real fun still lay ahead and without the help and guidance of Sumeet, we would be left with this cute little toy site that real programmers would see and just nod and pat us on the head. But Sumeet being the awesome human he is, gave us the lowdown on API's. To me, this felt like the realm of 'Hackers' that I had always wanted. Install a couple Ruby Gems, sprinkle in some code, and now we could grab all of Spielbound's game title and give them to another site to return all of that game's information. So, unspeakably, cool. Seriously, I can't describe how great it felt to be able to do this.

Each week here at OCS and we keep making leaps and bounds. If I were to tell myself at the beginning of the week what we would have accomplished by the end, I probably wouldn't believe me. Sure there are still lots of things to do on the site and much more that we could have added, but it works. I just can't wait to see what the next day has in store. Learning is the bee's knees.