---
title: Diversity in Tech
---

Diversity in any situation can be a sticky situation, stickier than it should be. But apparently people, grown adult people, never took to heart the adage, "Never judge a book by its cover," or you know, treat individuals with the respect and dignity they deserve by just being. As Jeremy so succintly put it, I am the "default human setting" for American society. I'm a white, cis male with a Midwestern, middle-class upbringing. Thanks to the actions of countless "defaults" before me, I harbor a certain villainy. Not that I actively or consciously try to denegrate those unlike mylself, but benefit by my aformentioned appearance where those unlike myself are met with hurdles for not having a white, cis-male skin suit handy (who would even want that really? Ed Gein aside). I could passively thrive in this matchbook house of the white American male, tenuously held together by antiquated societal norms, while others struggle. That's a problem.

In reviewing the Diversity Primer, it became immediately apparent that the issues which plague everyday life seem to be magnified in this industry. The gaps between race, gender, and sexuality widen in comparison to the American population as a whole. This wasn't necessarily surprising as I tend toward a realist point of view of the world. That's a problem in and of itself as something so deplorable shouldn't be normal or expected. A person's identity shouldn't be the litmus test for how they will perform in any given role, but people get entrenched in views that defy logic and reason all the time.

So now that the defaults have created this imbalance, we all pay in one way or another. Am I getting a leg up even though I lack where others succeed? Are those unlike me getting a leg up to over-correct the imbalance? See, sticky, oh so sticky.

I don't have the answer for how we can move past identity issues toward a more merit-based system while also embracing the diversity that makes us all so rich and vibrant as individuals. It's apparent that the old guard of white men with white picket fences are jealously holding onto the status quo. While it would be nice to think that they are a dying breed, the problem is deeply entrenched in how American society operates. The push back against this system has been seen by those behind the white picket fences as its own certain kind of oppression. They don't see themselves as oppressing those unlike them probably because they, like me, may not actively or consciously further the problem. But in passively benefiting they are also passively oppressing. We all need to claim the imbalance and recognize how our identity, defined personally and socially, detracts from and benefits ourself and others.

That's my bit as another "default"; hopefully I'm somewhat on the right track. As one who is fascinated by culture and identity, I only hope that we can create an environment to celebrate and foster diversity. If the media, social and otherwise, is to be believed, we don't need more of the same.