---
title: Third Week's a Charm (Or... Maybe Not!)
---

I'm writing this journal at 6:00 am. It's not one of those situations where I couldn't sleep and decided to get up and work on stuff. I'm not that cool. I got up BECAUSE I'm going to get way behind in these journals if I don't. Why am I about to get behind in my journals? Because I'm a little behind in my actual coding work, too. Why am I getting behind in my coding work? Well, that's a good question. I'm not sure why. I really, truly, haven't had a difficult time grasping the important concepts and I seem to have a good understanding of everything we've learned thus far. I think I'm just a slow worker. Especially when I'm unsure of myself.

Right now we're focusing on database manipulation ("CRUD", if you will. Create, Read, Update, Delete) and we have created a website that is meant for administrators to be able to hypothetically manage a swimming competition. Sumeet told us we could get creative with the details, so I decided to make mine for a penguin swimming competition (instead of schools, I have "rookeries"... and that's about as clever as I get, folks). 

Like I said earlier, the concepts aren't hard for me to grasp. That doesn't mean this stuff comes easy for me. Here's a good example. Before we could start on the actual coding work for the Swimming Competition assignment, we were instructed to create spreadsheets of tables that included fake data for our hypothetical Swimming Competitions. Let me be clear here, this particular exercise did not include any sort of coding (or anything "cerebral" for that matter), and I somehow managed to have a difficult time with it. No joke. It turns out, I was making things too complicated and I didnt' realize at the time that the entire point of the exercise was just to make sure that we would be able to create tables in our database that would accomodate the type of data we needed. Instead, I focused on the details (The names of the penguins and rookeries, for example. I also may have thought way too long about reasonable times for the results.). Like I was saying, I made it all too complicated. 

I think the most difficult thing for me right now (forgive me if I've told you this before) is the endless amount of "possibility" involved in making projects like this (yes, even as simple as a bare-boned Swimming Competition Admin website). To best describe what I'm feeling, I believe the closest comparison I can think of would be that same sensation a lot of us feel when we're assigned to write a very long paper on a subject we know a little (but not a lot) about. What I mean is that it's not like you have to go re-learn how to write before embarking on such a project. In fact, there's a good chance that if you already know a little abou the subject, you'll even have a few ideas as to what to write. But that's not the problem.

What I'm trying to get at is that sometimes it's overhwelming to do things we already know how to do (like write long papers) merely because of the size of the project itself is intimidating. I'm FAR from being a master programmer, but this assignment involves concepts and ideas that we've already learned about. It's just that as I began to creating this Penguin Swimming Competition website, I realized how far I could take each part of the assignment if I really wanted to. The possibilities are endless! Where do I stop? How do I know when to stop? 

I should stop. I will stop. Maybe I do know when to stop? No. Let's be honest. I don't. I'm only going to stop because I've got to start getting ready for another day at Omaha Code School... and I don't want to be late!

