---
title: Wrapping Up Week Three
---

One thing I learned at my last job, when learning a language it is very easy to get bogged down in trying to sort out why something is said a certain way.  It bogs you down because the reason behind _why_ you say something that way is far less important for communication than the fact _that_ you say it that way.  For example, in English, when you say "it's raining cats and dogs," the message you're trying to convey is that it's raining very hard.  That's the important bit.  Why that particular phrase means that isn't very important to being able to use it correctly.  Moreover, if you got hung up on the why, the tendency is to stop and puzzle over it for a good bit and go precisely nowhere.

When you're learning, at least in my experience, momentum is key.  So much of the early stages of learning a thing is painful.  You feel like an idiot.  Every new concept you come across is another reminder of just how poorly you understand your new subject.  It sucks.  So, trundling along at a good clip is key.  You need to keep putting one foot firmly in front of the other, if only to convince yourself that you're making some sort of progress.  As such, getting caught up in the why, while important, isn't advisable.  That's really come into play this week.

Much of the early part of this week was spent trying to get and keep that momentum.  I'm still not sure that I grasp all of the finer points, but I've gotten myself to a point where I feel like I can move forward.  As far as I'm concerned, making real progress with this is intimately bound up with convincing myself that progress can really be made.  So, I'm happy I'm at that point.  

One thing that was helpful this week, and really something I've found helpful from the get go with this class, is that there's a real sense of people being willing to help one another.  Even if that willingness to help doesn't always translate into an ability to help (we're all new and sorting things out after all), the willingness to help is good at helping to keep that momentum I mentioned going.  It gives the impression that we're not all in this ultimately alone and sometimes the problems we're encountering at this stage just need the nudge that a new set of eyes can offer.  All in all, I'm still enjoying the process and the opportunity to wrestle with a new subject.