---
layout: post
title: Diversity
---

This week we delve a bit into the issues with diversity, or more appropriately, the lack thereof, that are currently plaguing the tech industry.  I'm never really sure that I'm the right one to address this.  I mean, not for nothing, but I'm a blond, blue eyed white guy with a shaved head in his thirties.  People who look like me are generally viewed as the homogeneous majority of the tech world.  Well, okay, so maybe they don't all have shaved heads.  Still, I'm not anyone's idea of what diversity looks like.  Be that as it may, the central theme of most of the articles in the diversity primer, i.e., that there's a diversity problem in tech and that all of us need to take steps to create more inclusive enviroments to work in is something I can honestly say I really believe in.  Aside from the value that diversity can bring to the workplace in monetary terms(an idea that they seemed to be pushing in the articles we read), encouraging a diverse community just strikes me as the right thing to do.  Where it gets frustrating for me is in how best to bring that sort of community into being.

I'm a big believer in seeking out causes and not symptoms and in looking at the data presented in the articles we read.  _That_ there's a definite problem is clear, what's causing it isn't always so.  So much of it seems to be echoes of stupidity, ignorance, and iniquity of the past.  We're just dealing with what's come after.  Even so, laying the blame in the past and ignoring what is going on in the present isn't really a good path either.  Nor, for that matter, is saying that some of the things that brought that inequality into being, now (hopefully) waning, will eventually lead to better conditions.  For the people getting the short end of the stick, eventually isn't sufficient.  They're facing real problems _now_.  So, saying "eventually" is sort of like telling a starving person that food will show up "eventually".  It's a nice idea in the abstract, but it doesn't change current conditions.  For that matter, it's indistiguishable from current conditions.

As should be amply evident from the foregoing, I'm sort of at a loss of what to do, big picture, about the issues we've discussed.  I usually wind up doing the intellectual equivalent of chasing my own tail.  Big picture, I'm not altogether sure what I can do.  Small picture, in terms of how I interact with those around me, I can try my damndest to not make matters worse.  I can also try to use what privileges I might have to intercede when I see wrongs being done, not that that path isn't likewise problematic.  As of this draft, I'm still wrestling with all this.  Each time I sit down to write something coherent it just gets away from me.  So far, the best I'm able to say with any degree of certainty is that I'm going to screw this up somehow and I need to work to make sure that I learn from those screw ups.  Thus might I hope to screw up less overall.