---
layout: post
title: "Hack Your Learning"
category: articles
---

To me, the term "hacking my learning" means changing something, big or small, in the way I work to make myself the most comfortable and efficient. Our class discussion about this included a lot about what we listen to while coding, our break-taking habits, and organization. I've tried experimenting with various different things; some have ended successfully, others terribly, and in some areas, I'm not really sure what works best yet. 

One thing I've found is that I tend to get antsy from sitting by mid-afternoon. The days with yoga are perfect, because right around when I'm starting to squirm in my seat is when we get to go upstairs and stretch. Twice now I've left class early to run and then return home to continue working, and my mind has been much more clear afterwards (although I don't want to make too regular a habit out of leaving class early). I also tried a standing desk for one afternoon, and while I liked being able to stand while working, I found that I couldn't concentrate as well while vertical. Standing desks will be great for times when I'm doing a lot of c+p or less mind-intense work, but not when I really need to think critically.

A legitimate lunch break is definitely important for me, too--I've been reading the news most days while eating, but now that the weather is starting to get nicer (some days, at least), I want to go outside to eat. Turning my brain completely off from coding while I eat helps me alleviate stress.

One thing I still struggle with is what to listen to while coding--some days, classical music is great, other days, it's upbeat tunes, and sometimes, any and all music seems to distract me. Once I listened to an audio recording of horror stories from Reddit, and I was surprised how much the simple but entertaining stories kept me alert yet not distracted (although I was working on something heavy on cliks and low on thinking at the time). Maybe this is something I'll learn to choose day-to-day based on how I'm feeling and what I'm working on. I may give Jeremy's white noise idea a try one of these days, as well. 

One last thing I need to be better about is looking up from my screen more often. My eyes were killing me at the end of the day yesterday; enough so that I cancelled my after-class plans so I could go home and do nothing but sit there with my eyes closed. I'm still experimenting with whether having contacts or glasses is better for this, as well as switching between the two during the day.