---
title: JavaScript and the need for more java...er, coffee
---

Finishing our projects last week was a lot of fun.  Well, finished is a rather vague thing with an app.  We'll be tinkering with it for a good long while I'm sure, still, we got it working.  Now begins the task of putting flesh on the bones of the skeleton we've made.  Thus our move to JavaScript(JS).

Now, on the surface, I see a lot of similarities between what we were doing with Ruby, but I'm certainly missing things from that language.  The really descriptive error messages are truly missed.  Still, that's not to say JS doesn't have some fun bits.  For example, even though they generally annoy me when I run across them out in the wild, being able to create a pop-up with such relative ease is kind of fun.  I can almost understand why my early we browsing experiences were littered with them.  I understand, but, of course, do not forgive.

Moreover, I'm a bit of a geek about little tweaks you can make to a scenario to alter a person's experience in a big way.  Consequently, a lot of the exercises we had that dealt with moving a cursor from one field to another on a form or hiding a wall of text were a lot of fun.  If nothing else, it's neat to be able to see how something that is so much a background part of my browsing actually works.  

Still, this week wasn't without its difficulties.  While I'm liking the new langugage and the potential I see with it, I'm absorbing it unevenly.  For example, our project this weekend has stymied me a bit.  Phase I didn't really present any problems, I manage to knock the framework out for that in about an hour.  It was Phase II that has me a bit behind at the moment.  The particularly annoying bit is that I'm not really sure why it's not coming together on that front.  Maybe it's a lingering sense from the earlier exercises we did with JS that has me feeling a bit bogged down.  I'm not sure, but will continue plugging along.

Despite this last week having me feeling a bit sluggish, on the whole, I'm really looking forward to doing this.  By this, I mean finding a way to turn all that we've been learning into a profession.  I'm one of those people who may never figure out what they want to do when they grow up.  I've come to accept this, but I've also come to accept that while that may be true, I still need to _do_ something.  This is something that I actually want to do.  What's more, it's something I can see myself doing.  That hasn't always been the case with work I've pursued in the past.  I mean, most people wrestle with similar issues in finding how they're going to make a living, but I've always seemed to have a particularly rough time of it.  Still, what all the preceding is meant to say:  I'm actually looking forward to doing this for a living.  Now, let's hope I don't flub it.