---
title: OCS Log, Teetering On the Edge of Week 4
---

Another week in the books, another week chock-full of ups and downs to both embolden and discourage. We've now weaned ourself off of cutesy toy programs nested in the comfort of the command line to hit the mainstage of the fabled Internet. That John Denver is full of shit, not nearly as many cats as advertised. 

Just to give us something to grasp onto as we enter this strange new world, Sumeet had us traverse the well-trodden path of URL requests and 'like' clicks. I had a rough idea of how one goes from hitting enter on a Google search to cute overdosing on a video of fumbling, headstrong goat babies 
(kids, I know, but confusion needs no assistance in these parts) but now the magic is gone. Good news! The path is linear in nature and able to be navigated without much pain by the willing fleshbags among us. From request to controller to model to server, back to model, then controller, a quick rinse in a view or two, another run through the controller (again? yes), and finally back to the user. With this roadmap and a few tools in our back pockets, we were tossed into the fray. The goal: create a website for a tempermental admin of a swim competition.

If this task has taught me anything, it's stress management coupled with maintaining perspective. As mentioned in a previous post, when Sumeet kicks the proverbial Sisyphean boulder down the hill, hope can become but a husk of its former self. But luckily(?) enough, there is some carryover in dealing with depression and dealing with the discouragement birthed from tackling mind-contorting new concepts. The Venn diagram of coding and depression has the gooey center of stepping back, accepting your mindset, and knowing that this too will pass. When riding the crest of mastering a new skill, I know a trough of complete befuddlement is soon to follow and vice versa. Such is the circle of life.

More often than not when I've found myself struggling to move forward, it's because I have lost focus in trying to do too many things at once. When at this crossroads I've trained myself to take stock of where I am, reset, and trace the path of what I'm trying to accomplish. Many a breakdown can be averted with a deep breath and a step back.

Now come Monday morning I've cycled through this cycle countless times. The website isn't yet complete but it's getting there. Where some pieces fell together smoothly like the first act of a cliched '90s heist movie, many others revealed themselves to be that all-too-eager new guy with the itchy trigger finger and a clipful (that's a word now, you're welcome) of buggy code. The trick is picking out that newbie from the lineup before the damage is done. Dumb analogies be damned: slow down, think through the steps, and get comfortable being uncomfortable.