---
layout: post
title: The sun sets on Week Five 
---

As our projects grow ever more complex, I'm struck by how there's a balance between solving a given issue and finding a way to iterate it over the whole project.  In a lot of ways, this seems to be echoed in the business practices of various tech startups I've seen.  They sort out how to accomplish something in a given market and then scale up and spread it out nationwide or even globally.  Similarly, I've found that sometimes the solutions I've found for things merely _seem_ identical and transferable from one model or controller to another.  It reminds me of that line about history not repeating itself so much as rhyming.  I'm actually happy to see that as the case.  I much prefer a scenario where even in cutting and pasting, I need to be on the lookout for problems in need of solving.

With regard to problems, I've had a bit of a time this week in getting my brain to really absorb a few of the concepts.  More often than not, what's proven to be a hurdle for me was a small thing not clearly seen or a step I didn't realize I could take.  For example, I was having a problem sorting out where a given method was going to snag its input from.  Had the form I was using been more than just a button, I'd have been able to use a text box to gather the requisite information to slip into params and from there into my method, but since I was trying to use just a button, well, I lacked the text box.  The solution, a simple one naturally, was to incorporate the data I needed into the action attribute of the form tag.  While I grant what I just wrote might sound like gibberish to someone who isn't versed in HTML(and I grant it may sound like gibberish even if one were up to speed on HTML), I'm happy to report that it is at least starting to make sense to me.  That's good, would that it didn't this far into the course and I'd be worried.

As time goes on, I'm feeling my confidence in the technical aspects of the job growing, but the social aspect still eludes me.  I've never been really good at networking or talking myself up and, while that's not a huge issue in class, I worry what it will spell for me as I start trying to turn my new skills into a way to pay the bills.  I come from a family of people who are congenitally incapable of talking about themselves in a positive light.  When we do it always comes off rather ham fisted and is easily mistaken for bragging.  Still, I have a feeling that I'll have ample time to practice and get better as the course goes on.  We're starting some pair projects this coming week and that should force me out of my hermity ways a bit.  Plus, I'm looking forward to working on a project and seeing it from start to finish as a thing of mine and my partner's own making.  This as opposed to the sort of "kit" projects we've been doing so far.  It's a chance to take the training wheels off and that's always welcome...even if it results in a skinned knee or two, it's also a sign of real progress.

