---
layout: post
title: Asking for Help...
---

Since our job is basically being paid to be frustrated, it's only natural that we'll try to ease that frustration from time to time by asking for help.  How we do this is important.  Asking in some ways might actually lead to a net increase in our stress levels rather than a decrease.  This is one of those situations where a little "Do unto others" is called for, i.e, think about how you'd want to be approached with a problem.  Would you want the other person to just come to you and dump the problem in your lap without any explanation and say "fix it"?  Probably not.  Thus, step one: Be clear with what the problem is.  Is it related to the algorithm you're trying to use on the problem?  Or is it more an issue with the coding of that algorithm?  Moreover, is it really that clear to you what the problem itself is?  Moving from there, think again, "what would be important to me if I were trying to help someone?"
I, for one, would like a good sense of what's already been attempted.  This spares me having to duplicate efforts.  So, step two: Be clear with what you've already done.  Lastly, I'd probably want to be given a little room to fiddle with solutions.  Even if something's already been tried, it might be worth revisiting.  It can be frustrating to be micromanaged when I'm the one who was sought out for assistance.  So, step three: Give the person some room to work.  Follow those three things and you're likely to have a better experience asking for help.