---
layout: post
title: Letter to an Imaginary Group of People
---

Change is the only constant.  Whether that change arrives from an external or internal source, it's always there.  The circumstances of our job change.  We need to move for health reasons.  We simply need to make something else of our life than what it is now.  Whatever the reason, change comes and we must decide what to do about it.  For me, I was getting out of the military and while I wasn't bereft of skills, the ones I had tended to push me in directions I was no longer sure I wanted to go.

So, what next?  I wish I could say I had some reasonable idea of where I was headed.  I'd mostly decided that I knew what it was I didn't want to do.  What I actually wanted to do wasn't near so clear to me.  Still, I knew that I had a reasonable facility with languages and a general interest in tech.  Or rather, I spent a lot of time thinking about all the things that fall out of our continuing breakneck technological advancement.  At the same time, I didn't know much about the inner workings.  In the course of my job hunt, I was fortunate enough to stumble into a grant program that would help me pay for training that would help me out of my ignorance of these things.  I started out at a community college.  While I enjoyed the course, it was a little slow for me.  It was also a bit more theoretical than I was looking for.  While I love theory, finding work with the new knowledge I was gaining was key.  I aslo didn't have a lot of time to get down to brass tacks.  All of that combined led me to the program at Omaha Code School.

The course ahead was a bit clearer now.  The program here, while not free of theory, had a strong lean toward the applied.  It wasn't a long course and promised to take me from my relative ignorance to a solid foundation quickly.  Still, as with any short course, the questions linger, "will this be enough?", "will I be able to compete with this training?", "do I have what it takes to make a living at this?", and so on.  Still, I had some friends who were developers and pestered them for a few weeks.  Many conversations led me to believe that, while any path is a risk, this was a good one to take.  Not working for three months is a bit terrifying, but I'm reasonably sure I'll scrape by.  

Now that I'm in the course, I'm happy I decided to risk it.  I'm enjoying the work and while I feel challenged, I don't feel overwhelmed.  Making something, really creating something, is something that's been missing from my life for a while now.  I like solving problems and this is a wonderfully flexible environment in which to do just that.  My classmates have all proven to be intelligent, capable people who I'm looking forward to getting to know.  No one's background seems out of place here.  It all seems to contribute in the end to the problems we are facing.  The varied perspectives and backgrounds all go to adding flexibility.

Honestly, I can't say I'm without fear in all this.  I am making a big shift, but I'm encouraged by the pace we've managed to maintain.  I've even gotten to take a few novel approaches to certain problems.  While it may seem a small thing when I look back on it many months from now, I was able to find a way to solve a problem using an array when at first blush it looked like a hash would be needed.  Small victories, I guess.

I can't say this is the right path for anyone else really.  I can only point to the facts as I know them.  This is a field with its fingers in many pies.  Since every business is trying to establish some sort of web presence these days, the sort of work we're learning is in demand in any number of different fields.  I think that's one of the things that appeal to me the most.  The skills seem a bit more universal than the ones I came into this with.  If I'm working in one industry and grow tired of it, I have the chance to switch to another and know that the skills I have are in large part transferable.  Moreover, there's a sense these days of being driven by our tech.  This provides an opportunity to wrest back some control from the machines that beep and blink in so many areas of our modern lives.  Plus, I'm having fun.