---
title: Hacking your learning
---

Over the past decade, I've found myself in several challenging academic situations.  Moreso in my life as a whole, but the schools of the past decade were particularly challenging in terms of pacing, quanity of information, and complexity.  Most operated on a sink or swim basis too.  Though what was being taught varied, what helped me make it through didn't.  Here's what I found kept me afloat.

* **Leave your ego behind** -- This one can be really tricky for some people,myself included.  It's not so much a function of arrogance as it is of being in over your head.  People who go in for accelerated courses are used to doing well.  They don't tend to find things challenging, assuming those things are coming at them at a normal pace.  When they're flying at them relentlessly and at high speed with little time for reflection, that's a different story.  Think of it like the difference between walking and running.  Putting one foot in front of the other is no big deal, I can do that all day.  However, if I suddenly have to do that very quickly my ability to keep it up is going to diminish rapidly.  Add to that a sense that I _can't_ stop else I fall hopelessly behind, well, not so easy.  People who are used to doing well don't know how to cope with doing badly.  Criticism of their performance can be mistaken as an evaluation of their intellect as a whole.  Additionally, finding themselves suddenly scrambling can make them question all that came before.  _Maybe I've just been lucky up till now.  Maybe I'm an idiot and no one's ever noticed before_.  That's not a mindset that's conducive to learning.  What's more, it's a needless distraction from actually learning.  Far better to accept that learning involves failure, often a lot of failure, and move on. "He who would learn to fly one day must first learn to stand and walk and run and climb and dance; one cannot fly into flying."


* **Fail early** -- This is important for a number of reasons, not the least of which being that failure is an integral part of learning and the sooner you get started failing, the sooner you start getting better.  Also, if you're new at something, you're going to fall on your face sooner or later, doing well at the outset just means that you'll have a larger head of steam going to drive you into the ground later on.  
  
* **Fail often** -- It's better to try to progress slowly and induce failure every step of the way.  I'm sure that this sounds really counterintuitive, "Wait, isn't the point of all this to get good? Why would I want to do badly?".  Simply put, because failure is so much more instructive than success.  If you build a bridge and it stays up, great, but all that tells you is that the bridge is staying up.  That it's staying up could be a fluke.  It also has no impetus contained within it for you to get better.  "I made this.  It's built.  Miller time."  It doesn't lead naturally into the whole "how can I make this better?" conversation.  That way lies stagnation.  If the bridge falls down, however, you learn all kinds of stuff.  Humility and that it's very difficult for an engineer whose bridge has collapsed to get a job making more bridges, yes, but a good deal more.  By autopsying your failure, you learn what went wrong, why it went wrong.  You learn that circumstance can change things you held to be constants.  Most importantly it has drive, motivation, a push to get better included in it.  
   
* **Fail with an audience** -- "I will _not_ be remembered as the guy whose bridge collapsed" is some powerful juju.  We're social creatures and however much we may believe we're above such petty concerns as what others think of us, we do.  Being embarrassed by our failures isn't pleasant, but it can bring with it a drive to do better, be better.  As the urge precedes the action, it's imperative that we find that push somewhere, perhaps in failure.  Best if that drive is innate, but for most of us, it's reactive.  It's strongly reactive to failure.  Failing with an audience is also important because teachers can only fix problems they're aware of.  If you seem like you're getting it, they've no reason to think otherwise.

* **Work hard, but don't dwell** -- With any challenging subject, one is bound to hit a wall eventually.  In an accelerated course, this is especially frustrating.  More frustrating still is that the best solution I've found for them is to let them stand and move on to something I can more easily wrap my head around.  It's frustrating because I hate not understanding something.  It rankles.  Still, if I dwell on whatever it is I'm just not getting, a couple of things happen.  First, trying to force an understanding is exhausting.  It converts all the forward momentum I might have had into trying to break through whatever barrier has been thrown up in front of my understanding.  Second, I rarely succeed at brute forcing the problem.  If I do, I'm so tired that though the barrier's no longer there, I can find it difficult to sort out exactly why.  Which, since understanding is central to this whole endeavor, is self defeating.  Rather than dwell, I've found that trying to skim along the edges of my problem keeps me moving and often gives me greater insight into the shape of the beast with which I'm struggling.

Any and all of the above have helped me at various times to get better.  For me, individual tricks work less well that adopting a certain stance to the process as a whole.  That stance usually resembles some variation of "embrace your failures and try to suck less tomorrow".