---
title: Week Four draws to a close 
---

Frustration is one of those things that I both love and hate.  Why I hate it is fairly obvious, it's frustrating.  Why I love it is a bit less clear.  I love it because it means I'm engaged.  That's important to me because one of the main reasons I've started down this path is that I'm trying to find some way to work and be that's really engaging again.  I'd lost that somewhere along the way.  Still, this past week and weekend has had a good many frustrations I wish I could've done without.

I'd felt good going into the weekend.  Despite some struggles with our first big database driven project, my partner and I had finished and were able to move on to writing up some unit tests.  That actually went fairly quickly even though that was not without its issues.  From there, I'd decided to switch gears and move on to the journaling assignments.  I'm not really liking how those are coming together as a whole.  I tend to write how I think.  While occasionally that's a good thing, it can also be verbose and scattered, which is not.

Still, Friday wound up at Spielbound with everyone playing games and having a good time, one that I wasn't able to stick around for the entirety of, but fun nonetheless.  Then, it was back to the drawing board with the binary battle project.  So far, well, it's "so far" and not "I finished with ease" so there's that.  The project started off well, but then I believe I fell prey to my needing to pare down my thinking again.  Essentially, I set about adding what to my mind is a single feature but which is actually a dozen or so.  Acknowledging you have a problem is the first step on the road to recovery though, right...right?!  Certainly something to work towards as this week unfolds.   