---
layout: post
title: "week three in review"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt: last week, i had A Moment
tags: []
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-02-12T15:39:55-04:00
---

Sometimes when I say "I'm having a moment" it means that I'm spacing and can't think of a word OR that I just watched read a really sad article about rescue dogs OR that I'm so stressed out I'm about to lose my mind, but this Moment was actually really...nice.

REALLY nice.

At 4pm on Friday, I realized that I had been progressing on my database project all day, and it had felt like work. Work, not struggle. Problem-solving instead of stumbling. I'd read the error message and know exactly where to go and what to do to get it to go away. Then maybe I'd get another message but it'd at least be DIFFERENT. Sometimes (not always) I wouldn't get an error message AT ALL because I had just known the right thing to do THE FIRST TIME. 

It felt like a job. It felt like making something. It did not feel even slightly hopeless.

Parts of it even felt kind of monotonous and I've never thought that word would sound so amazing, but it is! Monotony equals routine equals knowledge of task!

I have so far to go and this is such a small step but Friday was the first time I thought...I get it.

Guys, I GET IT.

I just needed to write it down so that next week when it takes me a while to get the new thing I can come back and remember this warm little moment where I totally knew what I was doing for like, half a second.

Mmmmmm. False security. Feels nice, doesn't it?